We have seen a long discussion in this group about What is Life? What we can understand from these discussions is that Science is not sure about what exactly Life is. Only some superficial claims have been presented where it is claimed that Life is a special arrangement of matter. On the other hand Vedanta scholars explained that Life is transcendental to matter and can be understood properly if we understand the concept of Consciousness, Soul and God that is discussed in Vedanta. To proceed further it is also important to hear from both Scientists and Vedanta philosophers What is Matter? We know that Matter is n
If you define consciousness as the root of everything then everything is consciousness. On the other hand if you define consciousness as the awareness of things (perhaps awareness of every thing in consciousness's highest form), then consciousness requires something outside of consciousness to be aware of, in which case there is a world outside of consciousness. Another way to look at it is to imagine being dropped into the center of the sun. You would loose consciousness right away (among other things). The Sun would continue to exist outside of your consciousness. If the planet earth were to fall into the Sun, 
There are well known forces in nature like Electrostatic or gravitational forces. In that sense there is no force that could be called life force. A frozen egg or a seed has very low metabolic activity. Under appropriate conditions, it wakes up and displays full metabolic functions that characterize a living cell. In as far as the potential for resuming  full metabolic activity exists, the frozen egg or seed could be considered alive. If you put seeds in a micro wave  oven for a short time, the seed may appear unaltered externally. However, it would have lost the potential to germinate and display characteristics
A cell may be considered alive till the chemical and physical changes inside the cell follow well characterized metabolic pathways and cell maintains homeostasis. The complexity of the molecules in the cell and their interactions manifests as what we call Life. In the absence of an entity which some people call soul, the cell exhibits remarkable properties. These properties emerge as a  consequence of the complexity of organization and function. This complex set of functions is what we could call life.
We have seen throughout the history of scientism that it could not explain anything concrete about origin of life, matter, and universe. Modern empirical science only scratches the outer surface of the true reality. Thus what scientists are practicing is only a subjective construction of models one after another without reaching towards any conclusive end. The followers of one model are arguing against the faith of followers of another idol and thus such a process creates endless idols with the followers of each models are continually trying to employ different convincing methods like political support or all oth
When we perceive a red strawberry and green leaves, we have knowledge of them composed of something with diverse redness and a greenness qualities.  Though a symbol like the word red or the number 1, can represent either, the word red does not have that redness quality the conscious knowledge does have.  You can compute or think with a word or number like red, just as good as redness knowledge can be used to computer and think, but without knowing how to qualitatively interpret a symbol like red, you can't know what it is qualitatively thinking about.  Where as the redness quality of our knowledge requires no int
The literature of cryptography has a curious history. Secrecy, of course, has always played a central role, but until the First World War, important developments appeared in print in a more or less timely fashion and the field moved forward in much the same way as other specialized disciplines.
After the First World War, however, things began to change. US Army and Navy organizations, working entirely in secret, began to make fundamental advances in cryptography. During the thirties and forties a few basic papers did appear in the open literature and several treatises on the subject were published, but the latter were farther and farther behind the state of the art. By the end of the war the transition was complete. With one notable exception, the public literature had died. That exception was Claude Shannons paper. The Communication Theory of Secrecy Systems, which appeared in the Bell System Technical
Cryptology presents a difficulty not found in normal academic disciplines the need for the proper interaction of cryptography and cryptanalysis. This arises out of the fact that in the absence of real communications requirements, it is easy to propose a system that appears unbreakable. Many academic designs are so complex that the would be cryptanalyst doesnot know where to start exposing flaws in these designs is far harder than designing them in the first place. The result is that the competitive process, which is one strong motivation in academic research, cannot take hold.
The whole point of cryptography is to keep the plaintext secret from eavesdroppers also called adversaries, attackers, interceptors, interlopers, intruders, opponents, or simply the enemy. Eavesdroppers are assumed to have complete access to the communications between the sender and receiver. Cryptanalysis is the science of recovering the plaintext of a message without access to the key. Successful cryptanalysis may recover the plaintext or the key. It also may find weaknesses in a cryptosystem that eventually lead to the previous results. (The loss of a key through noncryptanalytic means is called a compromise.)
